Migrate docs from planning repo (#76)
covid-modeling/web-ui: docs/web-operations.md

deployed via a repository dispatch event with GitHub Actions. See the [deploy
workflow][deploy-workflow] in the project repo for details.

You can deploy to the tip of the `master` branch to production using a CLI for
sending repository dispatches such as [dpx][dpx]:

```shell
> npx dpx -r covid-modelling/web -t $GITHUB_TOKEN deploy
```

If you're signed into Vercel in your command line environment, you can deploy
to production from there, as well:

```shell
> npx now -b GITHUB_SHA=$(git rev-parse --short HEAD) --prod -A now.prod.json
```

Be **very** careful when deploying in this manner—you are deploying the
current state of your working directory, and _not_ necessarily what's on
GitHub.

Note that the repository has a "prod" branch—this is because Vercel requires
each domain to be tied to some branch. This is a dummy branch and it should
not be pushed to—otherwise, a deploy to prod using the staging-based now.json
file will happen.

### Deploy Locally to Vercel

If you want to deploy your local code to Vercel, an easy way to do that is to
[create an OAuth app for yourself][new-oauth-app]. Give it a callback URL
that points to a Vercel alias you'll use, like

> "https://web-jclem.github-covid-modelling.now.sh/api/callback". Then, create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"https://web-$YOUR-USERNAME.github-covid-modelling.now.sh/api/callback". Then, create
```

a "now.local.json" (which is .gitignore-d) that includes your OAuth app
credentials and a workflow callback URL pointing to your app:

```json
{
  "regions": ["iad1"],
  "alias": "web-$YOUR_USERNAME.github-covid-modelling.now.sh",
  "build": {
    "env": {
      "BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT": "@staging-blob-storage-account",
      "BLOB_STORAGE_CONTAINER": "@staging-blob-storage-container",
      "BLOB_STORAGE_KEY": "@staging-blob-storage-key",
      "GITHUB_CLIENT_ID": "$YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID",
      "SENTRY_DSN": "@prod-sentry-dsn",
      "SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN": "@prod-sentry-token",
      "SENTRY_ORG": "github-disease-modelling",
      "SENTRY_PROJECT": "web-api-ui",
      "SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT": "$YOUR_USERNAME",
      "SESSION_SECRET": "@staging-session-secret"
    }
  },
  "env": {
    "GITHUB_CLIENT_ID": "$YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID",
    "GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET": "$YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET",
    "GITHUB_API_TOKEN": "@prod-github-api-token",

>     "CONTROL_REPO_NWO": "github-covid-modelling/staging-covid19-control-plane",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "CONTROL_REPO_NWO": "<control-plane-repo-owner>/<control-plane-repo-name>",
```

    "CONTROL_REPO_EVENT_TYPE": "run-simulation",
    "DB_USERNAME": "@staging-mysql-username",
    "DB_PASSWORD": "@staging-mysql-password",
    "DB_HOST": "@staging-mysql-host",
    "DB_DATABASE": "@staging-mysql-database",
    "RUNNER_SHARED_SECRET": "@staging-runner-shared-secret",
    "RUNNER_CALLBACK_URL": "https://web-$YOUR_USERNAME.github-covid-modelling.now.sh",
    "BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT": "@staging-blob-storage-account",
    "BLOB_STORAGE_CONTAINER": "@staging-blob-storage-container",
    "BLOB_STORAGE_KEY": "@staging-blob-storage-key",
    "OAUTH_SECRET": "@staging-oauth-secret",
    "SESSION_SECRET": "@staging-session-secret",
    "SENTRY_DSN": "@prod-sentry-dsn",
    "SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT": "$YOUR_USERNAME"
  }
}
```

Now, you can deploy with `now -A now.local.json`.

## Database

> We use an Azure MySQL database, whose credentials can be found in LastPass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use an Azure MySQL database. Credentials should be stored in a secure shared vault, and made available as secrets to the deployed web application.
```

something akin to this:

```shell
> script/db-migrate create name-of-migration --sql-file
```

Notice that we pass the `--sql-file` command: Our migrations are written in
plain SQL instead of db-migrate's JavaScript DSL.

Migrations are run automatically in development every time the web
application starts, so if you need to run a new migration, just use
`docker-compose` to restart the web service:

```shell
> docker-compose restart web
```

You can also manually run them locally:

```shell
> script/db-migrate up
```

In production, migrations are run via a GitHub Actions worksflow. You'll want
to ensure that your migrations are safe to run before the code that requires
them, and use something like [dpx][dpx] to kick off the migration:

```shell
> npx dpx -r github-covid-modelling/web -t $GITHUB_TOKEN db-migrate direction=up count=1 env=staging
```

See the [migration workflow][migration-workflow] for more details.

## Exceptions

We use [Sentry][sentry] to track exceptions and other relevant messages. If
you've got access to our GitHub org, you should automatically have access to
that Sentry org via GitHub OAuth.

## Logs

> Logs are streamed to GitHub's internal [Datadog account][datadog]. I haven't
> found perusing these to be the best experience, but I wanted to ensure that
> we sent them _somewhere_. It's attached to the Vercel org as an
> [integration][vercel-integrations]. Datadog integration is not a requirement
> and can be disabled if future maintainers don't need it. Though, be aware
> that Vercel does not keep logs by default and if you want to keep them, they
> must be sent somewhere externally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vercel does not keep logs by default, so if you want to keep them, they must be sent somewhere externally.

You can configure an external monitoring service as an [integration][vercel-integrations] on the Vercel org you are using to deploy the web application. The GitHub-hosted deployment uses Datadog.
```

## Credentials

> There are other credentials—for example, we connect to Azure Blob Storage
> directly. All of these are in LastPass, including the ones needed for local
> development in [advanced mode][advanced-mode]. Ask another maintainer for
> access, should you require it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are other credentials used by the web application—a full list is visible in the example `env` files above, and some are required for local development in [advanced mode][advanced-mode]. For example, we connect to Azure Blob Storage directly. 

For your own deployment, store these in a secure vault accessible to maintainers, for example in Azure Key Vault or LastPass. For the GitHub-managed deployment, contact a maintainer should you require access.
```

[advanced-mode]: ../README.md#advanced-mode-setup-maintainers-only

> [datadog]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs?saved_view=86476

Reviewer: Do we need to share the exact Datadog and Sentry links here?
